[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: What is a promise?
There are a multitude of different ways,
several different ways that promises
are explained and I will choose two or
three of those explanations here by
way of metaphor and illustration.
Again, because it's more important to
me that you understand the concept
behind promises first,
before understanding the API.
It's the reverse of the way most
of this stuff is typically taught.
But I want you to understand
why promises are so important.
Because they're not perfect.
And when there is some frustration with
the promise, or something that's weird,
or there's some gotcha,
there are gotchas there.
And when there's some gotcha down
the road and you're frustrated and
you find yourself.
Here's a clue.
There's is such a thing as promises hell.
If there's a call back sell,
there's a promise to sell.
When you find yourself stuck in
promises hell in your cursing at them.
I don't want you to turn around and
say, well I just get rid of problems.
Need to understand why
they're more important,
than just the usage of their API.
If I could change it, there are some
things I would change about the API.
But I wouldn't change
the fact that they're there.
They are one of the most important
advances that we've made in
codifying reasonable
asynchronous coding patterns.
So, first let me give you
a scenario around promises.
It's silly,
where it's early here together and
I want to make sure that
we're all kind of awake.
I see people sipping on coffee and
so have more coffee,
cuz your brains are gonna have to fire
on all cylinders to get stuff today.
But here's a silly metaphor
to explain to you.
I walk up to the counter at my
favorite fast food restaurant, and
I order a cheeseburger.
So I asked the lady,
I'd like a cheeseburger and she says,
that will be a $39.
And so I hand her the money,
give her the $39.
So I have begun the transaction
by ordering and
giving some money for something.
What am I expecting in
return of this transaction?
I'm expecting a cheeseburger.
But oftentimes,
I'm not handed a cheeseburger immediately.
What instead am I given?
A receipt, and importantly on that receipt
it has an order number on it, right?
My order says, order number 317.
So I take that receipt, and
I look at my order number, and
that order number has become
a placeholder for my future cheeseburger.
It is an IOU.
It is a promise for a future cheeseburger.
They owe me a cheeseburger
because I have given the money,
I've started a transaction.
Now, I don't have the cheeseburger yet,
I can't bite into it, but
that doesn't mean I can't
begin to think about and
reason about and
dream about my future cheeseburger.
I can begin to think about it in my mouth
can begin to salivate and I can be in and
have cheeseburgers dancing
in my head about how
amazing this cheeseburger is gonna be,
I'm famished, I can't wait to eat it.
I have something in my hand
that allows me to begin to
reason about this cheeseburger,
even though I don't yet have it.
And then those magical words, order 317.
And I walk back up to the counter,
receipt in hand, order 317 printed on it.
And I hand her my receipt, and
what do I now get in return?
I now am exchanging that promise for
the value for the value itself.
This is a silly metaphor, but
a metaphor nonetheless for
what is happening with promises.
Promises are a quantification
of the idea that we need a place
holder to eliminate time is
the concern wrapped around the value.
We need a container around it.
In programming speak,
we call that a future value.
It's a value that will eventually at
some unspecified point become fulfilled.
But in the meantime,
we still need to be able to reason
about it exactly the same way.
Because we don't want to sit
around waiting and wondering and
having all these forks of different logic.
That's the complexity that makes our code.
Hard to understand, hard to maintain,
hard to be bug free.
So the promise becomes a container
that wraps around a value.
If that promises come to
us primarily by way and
they're not original to JavaScript.
But they come to us primarily
by way of a language called E.
One of the members of the TC 39 Committee,
Mark Miller.
Is the creator of the E programming
language, and in E they have these things
called futures, and in E a future is
literally replaced by it's value,
it's literally exchanged by its value but
you can perform the operations
that you would normally do against
that value directly, transparently.
Even though the value isn't physically
there yet, you can begin to compose it,
you can begin to perform operations on.
We can get quite the same thing but
he said you know what,
this is really powerful and we should
bring something to JavaScript that
allows people to reason about
values it ignorance of the timing.
Values are the important thing and
composing values is the important thing.
If it sounds like it's kind of related to
functional programming, that's cuz it is.
Not to throwback in those terms but
promises, not their API but
their mechanism,
they're basically a monad.
They're a functional programming concept.
The API is not quite as clean as
a functional programmer would like and
there have been experiments to
create other versions that are more
functionally sound, but
the principle still the same.
So if it sounds functional,
it's because it is.
So that's one way of thinking about
a promise is that it's a future value.
Another way of thinking
about a promise is that it
an uninverts the paradigm
that we're traditionally used
to interacting with some other mechanism
that's going to be asynchronous in nature.
When I call some utility and I know
that utility's not going to finish now,
it's going to finish at some later point.
When I call that utility.
How do I wait around to hear that?
I have to give it a call back.
I have to pass a call back in and
you remember I said,
that's inversion of control.
When I wrap up the second half
of my program in a callback and
pass it to someone else,
I give them the continuation control.
And I've inverted the control that I have.
But what if we could
un-invert that paradigm?
If we could, un-inverter rather
not inverted in the first place?
Rather than passing
a call back to a utility,
what if we could say something like,
I'm gonna call some function and
I know it might take a while for
it to finish.
I want you to return to me,
when I call utility,
I want you to give me back something.
I want you to give me an event listener.
An event listener that I can
subscribe to a completion event.
So I'll listen for the completion of
events and you just fire that event
whenever you're good and ready, and I'll
be notified through this event listener
that you've finished your work and
I'll know it's time to move on.
In fact,
in addition to being a completion of that,
I can also listen to an error event.
If you had some errand to notify me or
other things that you want to notify me
about, I could simply receiving
that listener back from you and
I know that's a tried and true patterns
to receive something and listen to it.
Listen subscribe to events on it.